Lets agree then, at least for the sake of discussion, that these two 
modes of being exist: 

(a) reactive to outward forms to the point of being inwardly governed by them
(b) guided by an inner Presence which is not at the effect of outwardness

Given this dichotomy, of "taking the world to heart" versus "taking God 
to heart", it'd seem to me that religious folk of all stripes would agree 
that (b) sounds more attractive and any responsible human is likely on a 
path from (a) to (b). There's a ladder, some stairs, a way to climb 
higher towards God.  Let's get on with it then!  To the pilgrimage (the 
spiritual journey / adventure)!

But then maybe a number have become so imbued with (b) that we call them 
Enlightened with a capital E and draw halos around their heads.  That's a 
familiar way of talking I think most Friends might relate to, even those 
not as tinged with Asian memes as some from us from the Left Coast [1].

Translating your prose into the above framework, I get something like: 
Fox and Rogers were both Enlightened (God centered) however Foxonians made 
greater compromises to accommodate the need our Type-A people have for 
structure and hand-holding of all kinds. Foxonians were willing to 
manipulate the Outward Forms, more in the manner of Professors.

Like, some people just won't "believe" or have any chance of being convinced, 
without seeing the "reality" of their transformation reflected on TV or 
on a billboard somewhere, radio spots, yellow pages... on the web. They 
need confirmation and positive reinforcement or "proof" as they call it 
("empirical data" also popular).

Foxonians permit themselves to pump out said outward PR, whereas the Rogers 
types are more willing for the Enlightened to percolate into Friends by 
natural osmosis and not lift a finger to jolt (transform) the A types into 
B types.

I'm talking like a professor, I realize, with all the type A and type B stuff.  
It's how I'm trained: to think like a computer scientist (I'm teaching 
programming every week night this week, in addition to my day job doing 
the same thing).

That sounds outward form-like (more Foxonian than Rogers-like). I've always 
enjoyed pithy communication styles and some PR (propaganda) reaches the 
level of great art for me, and I admire it greatly.  That may mean I'm a 
creature of outward forms then, which brings me to my last question:  how 
would one tell for sure?  Aren't there corner cases?  What filters apply?

Back to the Asian memes, the stereotype is the zen practitioner sitting 
on a pillow in the Great Hall, meditating with an eye towards achieving 
Enlightenment, and the est master is in the back room, doing interviews, 
applying filters.

Students go back to visit the master and say what insight's they're getting, 
especially around this thing called a "koan" or puzzling saying.  "Switch 
off the lights to see the Light" might be a koan.  So how does the wizened 
master decide with a student has disconnected from the Outward and turned 
to the Inward or not?

Wouldn't there be the danger of "teacher's pet(s)" and only certifying 
only those that fit some picture?  What if said master is not really 
so Enlightened and is really more just racist and sexist, i.e. a creature 
of reflex-conditioning?   Who does this master report to?  What does 
quality control look like when it comes to HR?   How does one pass 
one's Enlightenment interview?

In some brands of Quakerism, we have Elders and Facing Bench but many 
meetings have deprecated that practice.  So do Quakers have any way of 
"certifying" that a Friend is Enlightened?

I'd say among Liberal Friends not.  We don't certify to that effect.  
There's no degree program.

But we do have our Clearness Committees which Friends are free to 
formally convene, or just conjure informally (as on QuakerQuaker) to 
test one's leadings.  

I see a lot of that going on here, and think it's healthy, spiritually 
speaking.

[1] Left Coast depicted / portrayed as one of Eleven Nations of 
North America:

http://www.tufts.edu/alumni/magazine/fall2013/features/up-in-arms.html
